# Overview

High energy physicists at CERN use simulations in order to reproduce collisions that occurs in the [Large Hadron Collider](https://www.home.cern/science/accelerators/large-hadron-collider) (LHC). Number of particles created in a single collision can range from a few to several hundred. Once they developped a theory which predicts the existence of a new particle, physicists run simulations and seek evidence of new particle. To do so, they classify all the particles resulting from a collision between background particles (uninteresting ones that they already know) and signal particles (the ones they are interested in). This is why high-energy physicists are working increasingly closely with machine learning scientists.

In th physics theory, the problem revolves areound the estimation of $\mu$ known as signal strength. 
$$
\nu = \beta + \mu \gamma
$$


Thi Fair Universe challenge is a toy-exemple for this problem. instead of working in a high-dimensional feature space, we consider 2D points (2-dimensional feature vectors) that belongs either to signal or background class. The aim is to build a model that estimates the $\mu$ correctly.
***

The dataset used in this competition are generated by a Generator. The data conist of some points (or events) as a datagrame, with the following features:
1. `x1` for x_1-coordinate
2. `x2` for x_2-coordinate

The `y` column shows the class of the point : either 1 for signal or 0 for background.

***

### Task
The task of the this competition is to estimate the signal strength $\mu$. 

### Phases: 
**Phase 1** - Development phase: We provide you with data generator to generate as much training data as you want and an unlabeled test set. You can train your model on the generated train data and then test your model on the unlabelled test set.


### Submissions
This competition allows you to submit:
- A pre-trained prediction model (code submission)
- A prediction model that must be trained and tested (code submission)


### Installation
In order to run this bundle locally, you need to install the following packages:
- pyyaml
- numpy
- pandas

It is recommended to use virtual environments e.g. conda env

### How to Join this challenge:
**Register**  
- Click **"My Submission"** tab in the top Menu
- Accept terms and conditions
- Click **"Register"** button



### Credits
- Isabelle Guyon
- David Rousseau
- Ihsan Ullah
- Mathis Reymond
- Ragansu Chakkappai